Just waiting...
Maybe RTFM!
You can weld ingots! There's no weld button - shift-right-click on the anvil with hammer in hand
Wearing armour still hot from the anvil will have disastrous results...
Straw in your inventory to stay warm
Make a pink boat with an alternative recipe not requiring a saw
Tough TFC grass can break stuff when it grows. 
Crops and fruit trees are very particular about growing conditions
Stay hydrated. Stay well fed.
Get high; Y > 170; and find Hemp seeds
Want a questbook? Benanov made one just for you!
Buckets no longer are used for planters. Using one will destroy your planter.
Alternate paper making recipes exist...
Alternate sugar making recipes exist...
There are hint rocks for the minerals that don't have surface ores...
Vein Info tab in JEI is key to knowing where to find ores...
Horsepower devices do not require a familiarized animal...
You can use ice or snow blocks in your inventory to stay cool...
Being in the dark without a light source will lead to Gloom, Blindness or even the Grue! 
Don't put hot things into flammable containers...
The IE Excavator does not like to touch TFC blocks (including snow!)...
Barrel of water or other liquid can be use in crafting recipes...
Placing a ladder on every second block works perfectly fine...
Space Suit and PneumaticCraft Armour are both immune from temperature...
The Nether is hot! Like really really hot!
Heat is a killer. Wear a hat...
Make Waystones using red gems and gold...
Spiders can drop redstone...
Creepers can drop glowstone...
Come see us on Reddit for sarcastic answers to your questions...
Don't eat the horse that powers your horse grindstone...
Do not for any reason stack two Raintanks on top of each other...
Don't ask me about Rockhounding, I'm as confused as you are...
Shift-click crafting stacks of stuff is super laggy... No idea
The AR Lathe makes crafting pistons much easier...
The IE Metal Press makes your crafting life easier...
Horses require a halter to ride. Check JEI...
Use a wooden shovel to remove items from RH Evaporation Tank...
The refrigerator take power in the back top. Then wait!
Coal Coke is correctly usable for Steel...in the IE Blast Furnace...
HV IE Wires will give you a boost!
Recipes with booze should also accept the Aged versions...
Bugs are free with every purchase...
The IE Revolver and Mining Drill have rendering issues sometimes...
Direwolves are not friendlier versions of TFC Wolves...
RH Power stations use RF and Fuel. Recipes need one/the other/both...
Don't bother with the cooling tower, or using distilled water. Sorry!
Sneak right-click full ingots to demold...
Powderkegs pack boom into one block with 100% drops...Go find that sulfur
NC Alloy Furnace can be useful for those two part alloy recipes...
Blue flowers can be found in cool dry areas and hotter wet areas...
Mature dead crops yield the most seeds...
Pigvil sometimes shows up for metal carrots, but he needs to like you first...
Chisel needs a hammer in the off-hand...
Prospector's Pick scans 12 blocks in every direction...
